Update CS0460 documentation to include C# 8/9 constraint exceptions (#46528)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/misc/cs0460.md

---
description: "Compiler Error CS0460"
title: "Compiler Error CS0460"

> ms.date: 01/02/2025

Reviewer: The date should be updated to today's date, and add the metadata tag for `ai-generated` content:

```suggestion
ms.date: 06/03/2025
ai-usage: ai-generated
```

---
# Compiler Error CS0460

> Constraints for override and explicit interface implementation methods are inherited from the base method, so they cannot be specified directly, except in specific cases  

Reviewer: This change should be reverted. It's the verbatim error message, and it's repeated for SEO usage:

```suggestion
Constraints for override and explicit interface implementation methods are inherited from the base method, so they cannot be specified directly
```

>  When a generic method that is part of a derived class overrides a method in the base class, you may not specify constraints on the overridden method. The override method in the derived class inherits its constraints from the method in the base class.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 When a generic method that is part of a derived class overrides a method in the base class, you can't specify constraints on the overridden method. The override method in the derived class inherits its constraints from the method in the base class.  
```

  
However, there are exceptions to this rule:

> - Starting with C# 9, you can apply the `default` constraint to override and explicit interface implementation methods to resolve ambiguities with nullable reference types.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Starting with C# 9, you can apply the `default` constraint to `override` and explicit interface implementation methods to resolve ambiguities with nullable reference types.  
```

Reviewer 2: When I first read it, I read it as "apply the constraint to override ...", as in 'override' is the action you want to take. So maybe the backticks help.

> - Starting with C# 8, you can explicitly specify `where T : class` and `where T : struct` constraints on override and explicit interface implementation methods to allow annotations for type parameters constrained to reference types.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Starting with C# 8, you can explicitly specify `where T : class` and `where T : struct` constraints on `override` and explicit interface implementation methods to allow annotations for type parameters constrained to reference types.  
```

{  
   void F1<T>() where T : BaseClass;  
   void F2<T>() where T : struct;  
   void F3<T>();  
   void F4<T>() where T : struct;  
}  
  
class ExpImpl : I  
{  

>    void I.F1<T>() where T : BaseClass {}   // CS0460 - cannot redeclare inherited constraint  
>    void I.F2<T>() where T : struct {}      // CS0460 - cannot redeclare inherited constraint  
>    
>    // Valid since C# 8 - explicit class constraint for nullable annotations  
>    void I.F4<T>() where T : class {}       // OK - explicit constraint for nullable annotations  
>    
>    // Valid since C# 9 - default constraint to resolve ambiguities  
>    void I.F3<T>() where T : default {}     // OK - default constraint  

Reviewer: There are a few small issues with the current sample. Can you change it to something like the following:

```suggestion
    void I.F1<T>() where T : BaseClass { }   // CS0460 - cannot redeclare inherited constraint  
    void I.F1<T>() where T : class { }   // Use `class`  instead of `BaseClass` to avoid CS0460
    void I.F2<T>() where T : struct { }      // allowed - explicit constraint for struct
   
    // Valid since C# 8 - explicit class constraint for nullable annotations  
    void I.F4<T>() where T : struct { }       // OK - explicit constraint for nullable annotations  

    // Valid since C# 9 - default constraint to resolve ambiguities  
    void I.F3<T>() where T : default { }     // OK - default constraint  
}     
```

{  
   void F1<T>() where T : BaseClass;  
   void F2<T>() where T : struct;  
   void F3<T>();  
   void F4<T>() where T : struct;  
}  
  
class ExpImpl : I  
{  

>     void I.F1<T>() where T : BaseClass { }   // CS0460 - cannot redeclare inherited constraint  

Reviewer 2: Code comments should have periods - I think for screen readers. Also, could you put them above the code to avoid the scroll bar?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ad4b1188-0d3a-4b58-9150-a30d32ee2b8a)

  
class ExpImpl : I  
{  
    void I.F1<T>() where T : BaseClass { }   // CS0460 - cannot redeclare inherited constraint  
    void I.F2<T>() where T : struct { }      // allowed - explicit constraint for struct
    // CS0460 - cannot redeclare inherited constraint.
    void I.F1<T>() where T : BaseClass { }
    
    // Allowed - explicit constraint for struct.
    void I.F2<T>() where T : struct { }
   
    // Valid since C# 8 - explicit class constraint for nullable annotations  
    void I.F4<T>() where T : struct { }       // OK - explicit constraint for nullable annotations  

    // Valid since C# 9 - default constraint to resolve ambiguities  

>     void I.F3<T>() where T : default { }     // OK - default constraint  

Reviewer 2: @BillWagner I think Copilot dropped the OK comments. Is that okay?
